 There are quite a few ways someone can find themselves in this situation:

.  I'll cover a basic structure first, then go into some attitudes and principles towards the whole thing that I think are important.  It seems simplistic, but there can be a lot to each point.  There are two main ways to do this:

.  You don't necessarily have to go out and meet ten strangers to have one.  I'm talking about people like: .  Sometimes you're at a point where you need to meet entirely new people.  If most of your hobbies are solitary you might also need to add some more people-oriented ones to the mix.  You won't form a connection with everyone you interact with, but if you chat to enough people you'll find you like and get along pretty well with some of them.  This is the most important step in my experience.  There may be someone they joke around with at work, or chat to in one of their classes, but they won't take the step of inviting them out and taking the relationship to the next level, and beyond the acquaintance stage..  While it is a little scary at first, and there is some risk of rejection, it's fairly easy to get used to.  For example, if a friend brings one of their buddies along to have drinks with you one day, and you spent four hours together and hit it off from the start, you may be totally comfortable asking them to hang out again right away.  You may meet someone interesting, but you can never assume you're going to see them around again anytime soon.  Sometimes the process is straightforward.  They shouldn't always have to step up and organize things for you.  If someone invites you to do something, then you should go.  Ignore those thoughts and go anyways.  You may get invited to a movie you don't particularly want to see, or someone might call you up on Friday evening as you're about to go to bed, asking if you want to go out.  They may have nothing against the person, but the next time they're planning an event will think, "Paul never comes out when I ask him, so no point in letting him know this time really.".  You could consider them a friend of sorts at that point.  If you're not super social in nature, one or two good buddies may be all you need to be happy.  If you hit it off with them then you can start hanging out with them as well.  If you stop there then that's all you'll have.  There's no law that says everyone has to have dozens of people in their social circle either.  Now I'll go into some broader concepts that apply to making friends as a whole.  It's a big mistake to passively wait for other people to do the work of befriending you.  Take the attitude that it's about you and you'll do what needs to be done to make some friends.  Sometimes you have to take an interest in them before you appear on their radar.  They're not consciously trying to reject you.  Often all you have to do to make a friend is meet someone you naturally click with and hang around with them enough.  So hang out with whoever you get along with and who seems interested in doing things with you.  If you're picky, you can come up with reasons not to befriend just about anyone ahead of time.  Less naturally outgoing types can also be more picky about who they choose to spend their time with.  This may be justified if you have some irksome traits and understandably want to avoid others who have them, but often you may be turning away legitimately good people who just happen to have some characteristics that hurt your pride a little..  Then you get there and the experience is disappointing.  Try again another time.  They probably already have a social circle and their world won't end if it doesn't work out with you.  You'll get along at the time, and they may express an interest in hanging out in the future, but for whatever reason things don't materialize.  You may want to check this out: .  It may take a while before you get a chance to meet some people you're compatible with.  While relying on those base concepts, the following articles cover making friends in particular circumstances:.  In that case they have to meet some.  It's all about being proactive.  They might need to add some more social hobbies to their repertoire, or push themselves to get out and do things in the evening when they'd normally be chilling out in their apartment..  You may go to a few events and not really run into anyone you could get to know better.  Sometimes you have to work with the so-so hand you've been dealt.  If that's the case they should try to work on their other issues as well..  It's more of a longer term and indirect way to meet people, but keep it on your radar..  The other staff are generally in the same age group, and new people are constantly coming on board.  It can be a good way to meet people who have similar values to you.  Personally, I think signing up for a class purely to meet people is a bit excessive, but if there's a topic you want to learn about anyway, than why not?.  You can also start your own club or informal meet up.  Some are all about playing and take it pretty seriously.  Different churches have different flavors to them based on their denomination, the types of people who attend and so on, and you may have to try a few out before you hit on one that has a community that you click with..  In other families there's more an attitude of, "Ugh, why would I want to spend time with my dorky relatives?"  The same thing applies to siblings.  The idea is that the customers will tend to talk to you, or it's natural for you to chat to them during quiet periods.  Either way, they gather a lot of people together, who are all pretty open to mingling with each other and making new contacts..  .  Sometimes you'll be disappointed in the people you meet.  If you normally mountain bike by yourself then you could find a group that rides together on the weekends.   .  With this approach you do have to be careful not to let yourself get used.  Every Sunday morning at a nearby nondescript parking lot hobbyists may meet to screw around with their remote controlled cars.  Also, if you play a game like pool, darts, or air hockey you can ask other people to play against you.  .  Go to any that strike your fancy.  It can work, sure, especially if you're very outgoing, but I think the ideas above are easier.  That's too forward/presumptuous/needy, etc." then it might be more of a reflection on your overall discomfort with inviting people out and risking rejection, or your doubts about whether it would work out with a particular person.  Of course, text messages can hit more people at once, and creating a Facebook event thread creates a spot where people can discuss and coordinate the plan.  But still, phrase your invitation in a casual way.  If I had to pick one way though, I'd go with the 'Suggesting a Specific Plan' option.  I don't know.  You can ask a second time fairly soon, then if they still say no, give it some time before trying one or two more times.  You can also save face because you can play the whole thing off like it was some idea that just popped into your head, rather than that you've been planning for two weeks to ask the person to hang out, and you ever so hope they like you..  Some people also find trying to organize a group event less scary, since if it doesn't work out the rejection is more diffuse.  When you invite a group more goes into getting the plan fleshed out.  If anything you're the one offering them an opportunity.  They may worry about whether the relationship has changed, or if the pause in contact has had a negative effect.  Would it be okay if I joined you one day?".  It can make you feel like there's something extra wrong with you for having trouble making friends in such a supposedly easy situation..  Now that they're in a new environment they may not consciously know how to form a social circle and think it's something that will just passively happen to them..  It is a major life transition after all.  Universities realize not every student drinks, or is legally allowed to drink, and will try to accommodate them with non-partying activities..  Hang out in the common room and chat to whoever else comes in.  If you're in the auditorium to hear some presentation about Campus Safety, say hello to the people sitting beside you.  It's not like this is some long-established social circle that you're intruding on.  Even the students who came in groups will be meeting lots of new people there, so it's fine if you're doing the exact same thing, but just happened to show up by yourself.  You just have to find a handful of people you get along with well..  This article may help:.  It's okay though.  If someone doesn't have a lot of friends they may hole up in their room, try to hide their loneliness from the world, and feel sorry for themselves wondering why a social life hasn't 'happened' for them..  If you manage your time and priorities well you should have some time left over for socializing even in the most intense majors. But we  all need and want good friends, even those of us who may sometimes pretend  otherwise.. This page did not exist.  Invest in your city, community, surroundings and you will find yourself with plenty of acquaintances from which you will find friends.
. A bad 'chatting' instance on a bus shouldn't shut you down, or cause you to recoil. I know people are not perfect in the US, but there are often one or two cool, open and down to earth folks I can hang with.  Minimum time it takes in Seattle to get some traction in the friend arena=6 months.
.  Fingers crossed!
. We started talking, and we exchanged phone numbers and email addresses.