These places celebrate the essence of the coffee bean, each in a unique and delicious way.

    Before you order an espresso at a Seattle coffee bar, you can often read where the coffee beans came from, how those beans were roasted—and even a short résumé of the barista who’s making your cup.

    Your guide to the best coffee in NYC.

    There’s more to London’s coffee shops than just great brews. The last few years have seen an explosion of coffee culture in the capital, and these are the places to check out this creative community. Do you agree with the choices? Use the comments box below or tweet your suggestions.

    Opened in January 2013, Attendant occupies London’s most original location for a coffee bar: a late-nineteenth-century gents’ toilet. The urinals provide seating with small tables, and there’s additional seating at a banquette at the back. Be warned: this place is tiny, and rammed at a weekday lunchtime. But that was the only problem apparent.

    What once was a branch of Prêt has now been transformed into an independent coffee shop. The uniform fittings have been replaced by second-hand tables and an eclectic selection of pews to perch your derrière on.

    This is the third branch of what was formerly known as Tapped & Packed (the other two are on Rathbone Place and Tottenham Court Road), and don’t be surprised if it’s not the last. The formula is simple and very effective. Buy good beans and treat them with respect. Create a space that’s unintimidating and relaxing – a very long space in this case, with skylights running almost its full length. Employ waiting staff who know that a smile and a friendly word are just as important as efficiency. It pays off. Even though this branch is the largest of the three, it wasn’t easy to bag a table at 2.30pm on a weekday. There were a couple of informal office meetings taking place, but also a lot of people sitting on their own. Average age: low 30s. Food: majoring on sandwiches and salad of reasonable prices (by Soho standards), plus the usual baked goods.  A completely satisfying experience. Leaving was a wrench.

    This big, comfortable room doesn’t seem to alter much from year to year, and that’s fine with us. It does change during the week: most customers are a bit hurried from Monday to Friday, but everyone is very relaxed at the weekend. You never know who’s going to be here from one visit to the next, as the clientele is so pleasantly varied; you’re as likely to see a family with young kids as EC-sophisticates or office workers. There’s not much to say about the coffee except that it’s as good as it’s always been – and that means very good indeed, some of the best in London. Espresso is perfect, and guest beans slow-brewed in an Aeropress are always of excellent quality. There’s a small selection of daily dishes chalked on a blackboard, and sandwiches and baked things on the counter. Whenever you visit, expect to be very well looked after.

    The world's best hotels. Get the list.

    Reddit user Ricky Mikeabono created an amazing map of the best coffee house near every New York subway stop in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Queens. 

    Here's a map that shows you all the best places to get your coffee fix in New York, based on the subway line. How convenient! 

    Grab a cup at the city’s best coffeehouses

    Before you order an espresso at a Seattle coffee bar, you can often read where the coffee beans came from, how those beans were roasted--and even a short résumé of the barista who's making your cup.

    